# Mobile Computing and Master Data Management

Mobile computing has caused significant privacy issues in organizations due to the lack of control over the use of these devices. Even so, there are many advantages to the use of mobile devices in production environments. This week’s activity will give you the opportunity to explore data loss and cybersecurity threats associated with mobile devices.

The use of mobile devices such as smartphones, tablets, and Wi-Fi–enabled laptops to conduct company business—such as accessing company email or sensitive data—exposes potential threats that can lead to the compromise of overall business networks. Many organizations find that employees are most productive when using mobile devices, and the benefits are too great to ignore. Although mobility can increase workplace productivity, allowing employees to bring their own mobile devices (“bring your own device,” or BYOD) into the enterprise can create significant security, privacy, and management challenges.

Data loss and data breaches caused by lost or stolen mobile devices create significant challenges because of the confidential business information stored in these devices, both personal and professional. The loss of a mobile device can lead to a loss of confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information. Additionally, the privacy of the mobile device owner and the company the person works for may be at risk depending on the amount of information that is compromised. This is why every organization must implement a policy on the use of personal devices (laptops, mobile phones, flash drives, social media, etc.). Not stating a formal policy puts the entire organization’s data and application integrity at risk, it can also lead to cyberattacks, intrusions, massive data leaks, or viruses, among many threats. Implementing a formal policy and standards for corporate and personal mobile devices and data handling across applications and services outside the corporate network perimeter is essential to ensure the integrity and security of one of the most critical assets: data.

Controls—like those governing the use of mobile devices while at work, use of personal devices for official purposes (laptops, mobile devices, flash drives, etc.) —must be defined, adopted, and enforced. Virtual private networks (VPNs), encryption, and antimalware and antivirus software installed on every device are some examples of critical controls every organization must implement these days—not only to stay protected but also guarantee the continuity of operations.

Review the resources listed below (and previously provided resources, as needed) to prepare for this week’s assignments. The resources may include textbook reading assignments, journal articles, websites, links to tools or software, videos, handouts, rubrics, etc.
